So let us do exercise eight together.
We are going to create this file.
I am going to start with this one.
And we will go to app routes posts.
But before I create that file, first
I just want to call out the fact that
what we are doing is actually very similar
to what we did with the admin route.
So where we have an admin TSX,
that's our parent route.
And then the admin folder
holds all of our child routes.
Well, right now we have a post
directory that has child routes, but
their children have nothing
because we don't have a post TSX.
And so what we're getting is
actually kind of the default.
So this is basically what the default is.
It's just an outlet,
a component that renders an outlet.
You won't see that in the dev tools
that's just like how functionally
equivalent default route so
we're going to create that but
first I want to demonstrate
the problem that we're solving.
Thing and the problem that we're solving
is if I am on the index route for
instance and
I say some runtime error which of course,
TypeScript would protect me from but
if we had Had that situation or
anything yet gonna get this this is
built into remix and it just shows
you all that nonsense and it's like
that is not a great user experience.
So our objective is to just make
something that's more custom,
something that's a better user
experience for our use case.
Okay, so
that is what we're trying to accomplish.
So let's make the parent
route posts dot TSX and
we're actually gonna grab the default.
So we have functionally changed
nothing everything is functioning
exactly as it was before and we just now
have an additional route and because
we have this route now We can export
a function called an error boundary,
this will get a prompt called error.
And that error will be of type error.
And now we can say,
Let's console dot error, the error so
we can look at it you might like send
this off to a logging service or
something Or potentially and yeah,
we'll just return I do in fact we
actually have this error fallback
component that makes things look nice and
inside of here we can say
something went wrong.
If you get to this error boundary, it's
unlikely that the error message is gonna
be something that's useful to show to
the user because it'll probably be, like,
cannot read title of undefined or
something like that,
that just is not very useful.
So I typically in my air boundaries,
I will not show the error message
to the user because most the time.
It won't make sense to them unless my
users or developers in which case it
actually might be quite quite helpful for
them to say yeah, I got this thing.
Okay, so with that,
now we get snap something went wrong,
a little bit nicer user experience you can
make this you know if you want koala with
a tear running down inside whatever so
that is an error boundary.
That's the entire thing.
And now you just slap these
wherever you want them to go.
So something that might be a little
bit more obvious why this is
actually a pretty nice convention is if
we have an error in our admin section so
if I were to say,
when loading save law right here.
And then come over to my admin and
go to a particular post.
We're gonna get,
snap something went wrong.
So interesting thing is that these
error boundaries will bubble though it
remix says there was an error.
Is there an error boundary at my route?
No, there's not error boundary there.
No, and we'll just keep going up until
we get to that post Arab boundary
that I just put.
Put there, okay?
But if we wanna make an even better user
experience, then we can put an error
boundary right here, potentially have
it be a little bit more specific so
we could say something went wrong loading.
This post and now we have an air boundary,
that's more Isolated and
contextual for that area of the app.
And so actually what might be
kind of interesting is if we say,
up here, this is what I was
talking about earlier, so
we have to say params.slug,
Then we blow up.
And then I come down here and
it all still works.
So the users like hey, for some reason,
I can't get my first post.
They call up support.
They say, my first post isn't working.
The rest of them are fine.
It's just my first post.
I don't know why my first post, and then
they report it to us and be like, yeah,
I've totally forgot I
was just doing a demo.
And now we'll delete that.
[LAUGH] Right?
So that is everything with arrow branches.
The last thing that we had here was
just to put one right there,but that is
the basic.
Idea of error boundaries just allows you
to have something that's contextual,
you do get access to the error and
if you find that useful you can send that
off to reporting or whatever but
yeah render whatever you see fit.
For that error.
I mentioned earlier when
we were talking about this,
that this also does work on
the server render, which is cool and
it works inside of our loader,
not just our React components.
So pretty resilient.
The one thing or some areas where it
will not work is some of your code
that's running outside of
the call stack of Remix.
So events use effects
callbacks of various varieties
that are outside of what
remix is doing those
will not be remix is not
able to handle those.
Is just by nature of how JavaScript works.
But yeah,
most everything else should work.
Sweet.
Okay, then let's do catch boundaries.
So, error boundaries are intended for
catching errors that are unexpected.
But if I go to my first posts,
that's not an unexpected error.
I can actually anticipate that that's
probably pretty likely to happen and
in fact we have a convention for
that on the web and
that is status code 404 not found we're
looking for something didn't find it So
what we are going to do is just make
sure yeah, we're an admin slug.
If the post is not found, instead of
just throwing an error saying, hey,
post wasn't found.
What we want to do is we want to send
a response to say, hey, the post wasn't
found and, and then render something that
says, hey, there's no post by that name.
So what we're going to do is
we'll say if there's not a post,
then we don't wanna execute
the rest of this code.
We do still want to throw so that it
doesn't continue and return this JSON.
I suppose we could return JSON
here that says, post is null or
not found or
whatever you want to do and then.
And branch on that inside of our post
admin component and say, hey, if it was
said not found and render this component
instead, that seems like a lot of work.
I don't want to do that.
Instead, what I want to do is I just
want to have some mechanism that says,
happy path is over here and
it's beautiful.
And there's green grass and gardens and
flowers in this awesome and
then sad path is over here,
and they're separate.
So and
that's what the error boundary does.
We have a catch boundary for this as well.
So we're going to throw a new response.
And I'll just say not found
with a status of 404.
We want that status code that's important.
Browsers behave differently.
Search engines behave differently.
All of that.
It is important that you
have proper status codes.
Did for a long time everything was a 200
for me and that is not the way it is
web apps for all force they matter so
we're gonna send that status but
we're throwing Remix's the one
calling our loader, and so
remix is going to catch
this thread response.
So it catches anything and says,
what is this thing that was thrown?
Was it a response?
It was, great.
Then I'm going to go down this code path.
And this code path says I'm going to
look for the closest catch boundary so
we're going to export a function
called a catch boundary this one
has a slightly different API this
one you get a cut that's what we
call it it's kind of a weird name and
we may change it.
But use catch is a hook that you're
going to use from remix on react and
this caught thing is going to
be the response that we threw.
Okay?
So we threw a response.
We get that response with use catch and
I'm also going to get the Params for
my error message.
So use Params.
And then I'm going to say
if the current response
status is 404 then I'm going to return
an error fallback that says no post found.
But found with the slug.
Params.
That's like, If it's not a status 404,
then somebody else somewhere
through a response and I don't recognize
it, so I'm not gonna deal with it.
What I'll do instead is
I'll just throw an error.
It says unhandled response
status, code status.
And guess where that's gonna go?
Right there.
So I can deal with 404,
but you throw me a 403.
I have no idea what to do with that.
So I'm going to just send it over here.
Cool, so now I come over here
snap no posts found with my posts my
thing yep the first post cool And
that will client side render too so
if you have a link that goes to 404 it
will go over there it will not do like
a full page refresh or anything it'll
navigate over there and it'll render.
Under the catch boundary and
the data response.
So the request for the data will be a 404.
You will get a 404 for that response and
it will end up in the cache boundary.
Cool, sweet,
There's our 404 It
matters folks it matters,
okay and then of course we
apply this the same thing to.
Or other route here.
And then if you wanted to reuse this,
how do you reuse components?
You make a component and you use it again.
So if you really wanted
to reduce duplication and
stuff you could totally make it like
the master catch boundary that handles all
the The different status codes
if you want it to do that.
Okay, great.
Any questions about exercise eight and
error and catch boundaries?
>> So error boundary is for unexpected
errors while catch boundary is for
errors you know how to handle?
>> Yes, exactly.
And actually somebody did ask
during the exercise Time.
Whether you should throw
inside of your models.
So in here we could say,
yeah, if we say get post.
Here's my post await.
And then if not post then you
could throw in new response
not found status four four
otherwise return the post, so
now this get post will always return
the post you could do it this way.
I would not,
I prefer to keep my models just like leave
that to just regular JavaScript things.
No semantically meaningful
framework stuff in here but
to each their own, I'm not going to.
I tell you what to do I'm not your mom but
yeah I would not do this.
I prefer to and part of the reason for
that is what if this get.
Post throw like there's a another way for
this to throw an error now in your
loader you have to do a try catch and
you have to do a check was this a response
then re throw that otherwise I gotta do my
stuff like what nonsense
I don't want to do that.
>> So no I wouldn't do it here
are catch boundaries then for
server side loader action logic while
error boundaries are for client side.
>> No so error boundaries work for
server side as well.
It really comes down to unexpected
errors where you say markdown
dot 2 upper case All right, so
maybe Markdown is not a string,
or maybe it's no at this
point error boundary.
So you did not expect that to happen.
You messed up your code.
That's an error boundary.
Whereas the post does not exist.
Yeah, clearly that's possible.
I want to handle that
case that I can expect.